---
layout: post
title: Hands On With The Davinci 1.0 3D Printer
related: DV1
---
A brief review on The Davinci 1.0 3D Printer.

To start, the XYZ Davinci 1.0 3D printer is a consumer model 3d printer that happens to be one of the cheapest, non-kit based 3D printers on the current market. Even though it claims to support printing ABS and PLA filament on a print area of about 8In<sup>3</sup> with a Z resolution .1mm (100microns), that might not be large enough to print a life sized bust of Bill Gates. It is, however, more than large enough to print your lady friend's flower vase. That being said, to start it does not completely live up to its advertised claims. PLA support with the stock hardware is infeasible due to the hot end not having sufficient cooling, which makes the PLA jam a few minutes into the print. This is fixable and will be covered in a later post as I have plenty of ABS to print still.
The only other thing that the printer is lacking is the ability to print at speeds higher than 60 millimeters per second. Running at a speed of about 50 millimeters per second, the X/Y belts begin to slip which makes the layers not line up. This is not present at slower speeds, so it is only a minor issue. I won't go into detail about their proprietary filament cartridges; the internet has enough on them and how debatable the idea is.
Now on to software. The PC software that the printer comes with works for the user who does not need full control, does not want to understand how or why it prints what it prints, and is willing to be stuck to the limitations of the XYZ filament cartridges. I personally did not care for it and moved onto Repetier.
Repetier is a custom firmware for many different 3D printers. In this case, there is a custom fork of it for the Davinci 1.0 that enables the user to use 3rd party slicers, and has much more fine-tuned control over the hardware. It will not solve the belt issues or the PLA issues on its own, but it does make fixing them much easier.
With repetier installed I was offered a few choices of frontends to work with the Davinci. I ended up using repetier-host, It is free, simple, and honestly the first one I tried and it workes more then well enough for me. Repetier host supports a slightly more advanced preview area for printing. It allows resizing and relocating and other basic adjustments of the 3d models. It also allows importing of less lossy 3d file formats then STL. With this it also has a manual printer control panel for joging the print head and setting temperatures for preheating and other purposes. It also supports 5 custom gcode macros that can be run with the click of a button. Which let me tell you is mighty useful to prep the printer for a good cleaning or various other tasks. Finnally the most important thing about using repetier-host is that one can supply their own slicer and not use XYZ's proprietary one. This allows us to use something like CURA or slic3r which are much more configurable and with that allows much higher quality prints. 

All in all the XYZ davinci 1.0 3D printer is in my humble opinion worth every penny for a starter 3d printer. It won't print you the most accurate parts in the world, Nor will it print in every plastic type you can throw at it. At around $500Usd its half the price of most kits and comes preassembled for you and is accurate enough to sate most hobbiests needs. Plus with a little bit of effort it can be made to support more plastics. I am happy with my purchase and I think anyone who is looking for a small investment would benifit from the davinci as their first printer. 
Up next is a mini tutorial on getting repetier setup on the printer as well as a brief over view of setting up repetier-host and slic3r for decent quality prints. As well as a general overview of what some of what I felt the more confusing settings were and what they actually do.  
